README.md, before:

README
===
This is the backend to the RAPTIDE tool. If you are looking for the frontend repository then [click here](http://github.com/rlgod/SSD2-Frontend).
## Demo
For a short demo of the working product see our [YouTube Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FUUVBXXRfRU)
## Setup and Dependencies
Author: [Daniel Parker](mailto:dparker.tech@gmail.com)
### Dependencies
1. Play framework: Install the java version of the play framework on your system from the [play website](http://www.playframework.com). Ensure that the ```play``` command is in your system path.
2. git

3. RAPT Toolchain: RAPT is a private project. Contact me if you're interested in gaining access.

###Setup and Configuration
1. Clone this repository to any directory
```
git clone https://github.com/rlgod/SSD2-Backend.git
```
2. Enter the directory and run the play framework
```
cd SSD2-Backend
play run
```

## Code Review Process
This standard for code review is intended to improve both source code quality and also the cross-developer awareness. All development team members must follow this code review process and ensure that the process is followed at all times.

### Roles:
* Author - Person that wrote the code to be reviewed
* Reviewer - Person/s that will review the code written by the ‘author’
* Moderator - Person that is ensuring the code review process is being followed

### Process:
* The ‘author’ writes code in a feature branch and completes their own testing and review before pushing individual commits to that branch.
* When the ‘author’ has completed/improved/updated a feature they prepare an issue as per the Review Document template in the corresponding github repository. That review document issue is tagged as ‘Review Document’ and assigned to the ‘author’. All other developers are automatically notified by github on creation of the issue.
* Another team member chooses to act as the ‘reviewer’ for an issue labeled as ‘Review Document’. The ‘reviewer’ notifies the team by creating a comment on in the review document with the content “Reviewing”. Note - the moderator is the last person not assigned to a role.
* The ‘author’ organises a review meeting with the ‘reviewer’.
* The review meeting is held and all code defects noted and added to the review document as a single listed comment. The location of the defects (ie. file and line number) should be clearly visible.
* The ‘author’ fixes the defects found in the code review meeting and notifies by commenting with “Defects fixed - (commit number)” in the ‘Review Document’. The ‘author’ must also tag the final commit with the issue number on github eg. ```“Review - 12345”```.
* The ‘author’ notifies the moderator (not the reviewer) that the defects have been fixed by creating a pull request from the feature branch to ‘master’ and assigning it to the moderator.
* The ‘moderator’ confirms that all defects were fixed and marks the review document issue as resolved as well as accepting the pull request and merging the branches. 


### ‘Review Document’ Template
```
Author: <Developer Name> - <Developer Username>

Summary: <Summary of feature / changes to feature. ~ 2 Paragraphs>

Commits: <List of commits to review copied from ‘git log --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit abcdefg..’ including the trailing dots to list all commits since abcdefg, or alternatively ‘git log --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit abcdefg..hijklmnop’ for the log between two commits>
```

#### Example:
```
Author: Daniel Parker - rlgod

Summary: Implemented feature ‘A’ to satisfy the following requirements…
         etc.
Commits: 
      67898aa remove strict against null test
b8c028e Merge pull request #141 from Rovak/grunt/watchtask
81920bd moved building source to separate task to speed up build cycles
01110ec trigger build when source changes
32b973f added grunt-contrib-watch dependency
516f7dd jshint warnings
09573e1 trailing spaces
```

##Commit Message Standard
Author: <a href=mailto:zakwak01@gmail.com>Zakariah Chitty</a>

###Key Words
Keywords are words that classify the change being made. These appear at the beginning of a commit message. 

####DOC
Changes that are related to documentation.

Rules:
Doc must only be used in conjunction with another keyword. The two keywords are hyphenated together (e.g., Doc-New, Doc-Enhance). 

Examples: 
```
67898aa DOC-NEW: Architecture design document for module X.

b8c028e DOC-ENHANCE: Added a class diagram outlining characteristic Y to the architecture design document for Module X.
```

####FIXED
Changes related to addressing issues, defects and/ or bugs. 

Rules:
If the fix is related to a documented issue, this should be referenced in the commit message. Otherwise if the fix had not been previously documented then it should be described to a level of detail that is suitable for the given context. 

Example: 
```
FIXED: Addressed issue #7 bug found in Module X.
```

####NEW
Creating a new feature that did not already exist. This can also relate to doing basic plumbing. 

Example: 
```
NEW: Module X class to achieve feature Y

NEW: Screen to display information Z.
```

####ENHANCED
Updating or improving a feature, or aspect of the code that is not looks, performance based or a fix. 

Example: 
```
ENHANCED: Module X to perform feature Y.
```

####LOOKS
Non functional changes, i.e., prettifying. This will typically relate to the UI.
Example: 
```
LOOKS: Screen X now displays information Y in a cleaner way. 
```

####PERFORMANCE
Improving execution rates of existing features. 

Example: 
```
PERFORMANCE: Improvement for Module X when doing task X. 
```

###Other Practices
Changes can be related to the artifacts in a generic way (e.g., Fixed spelling mistakes in the UI on screen X) or if necessary changes can be related to artifacts at a file level (e.g., Commented File X to conform with commenting standards). It is up to the author to decide what is appropriate in a given scenario.

Commit message:

DOC: Link to Architecture Document

README.md, after:

README
===
This is the backend to the RAPTIDE tool. If you are looking for the frontend repository then [click here](http://github.com/rlgod/SSD2-Frontend).
## Demo
For a short demo of the working product see our [YouTube Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FUUVBXXRfRU)
## Architecture
This [architecture document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ymm5JxymRaUHveXnVgvbNbWf8D08Hx2GNmioxPNem50/edit#heading=h.br3fwomvrzib) outlines the structure of both parts of the RAPTIDE program.
## Setup and Dependencies
Author: [Daniel Parker](mailto:dparker.tech@gmail.com)
### Dependencies
1. Play framework: Install the java version of the play framework on your system from the [play website](http://www.playframework.com). Ensure that the ```play``` command is in your system path.
2. git

3. RAPT Toolchain: RAPT is a private project. Contact me if you're interested in gaining access.

###Setup and Configuration
1. Clone this repository to any directory
```
git clone https://github.com/rlgod/SSD2-Backend.git
```
2. Enter the directory and run the play framework
```
cd SSD2-Backend
play run
```

## Code Review Process
This standard for code review is intended to improve both source code quality and also the cross-developer awareness. All development team members must follow this code review process and ensure that the process is followed at all times.

### Roles:
* Author - Person that wrote the code to be reviewed
* Reviewer - Person/s that will review the code written by the ‘author’
* Moderator - Person that is ensuring the code review process is being followed

### Process:
* The ‘author’ writes code in a feature branch and completes their own testing and review before pushing individual commits to that branch.
* When the ‘author’ has completed/improved/updated a feature they prepare an issue as per the Review Document template in the corresponding github repository. That review document issue is tagged as ‘Review Document’ and assigned to the ‘author’. All other developers are automatically notified by github on creation of the issue.
* Another team member chooses to act as the ‘reviewer’ for an issue labeled as ‘Review Document’. The ‘reviewer’ notifies the team by creating a comment on in the review document with the content “Reviewing”. Note - the moderator is the last person not assigned to a role.
* The ‘author’ organises a review meeting with the ‘reviewer’.
* The review meeting is held and all code defects noted and added to the review document as a single listed comment. The location of the defects (ie. file and line number) should be clearly visible.
* The ‘author’ fixes the defects found in the code review meeting and notifies by commenting with “Defects fixed - (commit number)” in the ‘Review Document’. The ‘author’ must also tag the final commit with the issue number on github eg. ```“Review - 12345”```.
* The ‘author’ notifies the moderator (not the reviewer) that the defects have been fixed by creating a pull request from the feature branch to ‘master’ and assigning it to the moderator.
* The ‘moderator’ confirms that all defects were fixed and marks the review document issue as resolved as well as accepting the pull request and merging the branches. 


### ‘Review Document’ Template
```
Author: <Developer Name> - <Developer Username>

Summary: <Summary of feature / changes to feature. ~ 2 Paragraphs>

Commits: <List of commits to review copied from ‘git log --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit abcdefg..’ including the trailing dots to list all commits since abcdefg, or alternatively ‘git log --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit abcdefg..hijklmnop’ for the log between two commits>
```

#### Example:
```
Author: Daniel Parker - rlgod

Summary: Implemented feature ‘A’ to satisfy the following requirements…
         etc.
Commits: 
      67898aa remove strict against null test
b8c028e Merge pull request #141 from Rovak/grunt/watchtask
81920bd moved building source to separate task to speed up build cycles
01110ec trigger build when source changes
32b973f added grunt-contrib-watch dependency
516f7dd jshint warnings
09573e1 trailing spaces
```

##Commit Message Standard
Author: <a href=mailto:zakwak01@gmail.com>Zakariah Chitty</a>

###Key Words
Keywords are words that classify the change being made. These appear at the beginning of a commit message. 

####DOC
Changes that are related to documentation.

Rules:
Doc must only be used in conjunction with another keyword. The two keywords are hyphenated together (e.g., Doc-New, Doc-Enhance). 

Examples: 
```
67898aa DOC-NEW: Architecture design document for module X.

b8c028e DOC-ENHANCE: Added a class diagram outlining characteristic Y to the architecture design document for Module X.
```

####FIXED
Changes related to addressing issues, defects and/ or bugs. 

Rules:
If the fix is related to a documented issue, this should be referenced in the commit message. Otherwise if the fix had not been previously documented then it should be described to a level of detail that is suitable for the given context. 

Example: 
```
FIXED: Addressed issue #7 bug found in Module X.
```

####NEW
Creating a new feature that did not already exist. This can also relate to doing basic plumbing. 

Example: 
```
NEW: Module X class to achieve feature Y

NEW: Screen to display information Z.
```

####ENHANCED
Updating or improving a feature, or aspect of the code that is not looks, performance based or a fix. 

Example: 
```
ENHANCED: Module X to perform feature Y.
```

####LOOKS
Non functional changes, i.e., prettifying. This will typically relate to the UI.
Example: 
```
LOOKS: Screen X now displays information Y in a cleaner way. 
```

####PERFORMANCE
Improving execution rates of existing features. 

Example: 
```
PERFORMANCE: Improvement for Module X when doing task X. 
```

###Other Practices
Changes can be related to the artifacts in a generic way (e.g., Fixed spelling mistakes in the UI on screen X) or if necessary changes can be related to artifacts at a file level (e.g., Commented File X to conform with commenting standards). It is up to the author to decide what is appropriate in a given scenario.
